Add migration guide for CIS AWS 1.3.0 (#386)
gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io: _posts/2021-01-06-how-to-update-to-cis-13.adoc

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
toc::[]
endif::[]

== Intro

This guide will walk you through the upgrade process from the 1.2.0 to the 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark.
If your infrastructure is already compliant with the 1.2.0 version of the Benchmark, and you are looking to upgrade to 1.3,
this guide is for you.

=== What you'll learn in this guide

This guide consists of two main sections:

<<core_concepts>>::
  An overview of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark 1.3.0 and why it is important to update your code for compatibility.

<<deployment_walkthrough>>::
  The steps you need to take to update your code to be compliant with CIS AWS 1.3.0. It includes a
  <<compatibility_table,version compatibility table>> you can use as a reference to know which Gruntwork Repo version
  tag is compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0, as well as the manuals step you need to perform to achieve said compliance.

[[core_concepts]]
== Core Concepts

=== Background

> The 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark was release in July of 2020. You can refer to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark was release in September of 2020. You can refer to the
```
According to [their blog](https://www.cisecurity.org/blog/cis-benchmarks-september-2020-update/), the benchmark was released in September.

https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/amazon_web_services/[CIS website] where you can download the latest version of the

> Benchmark (as well as all the previous version). The latest version introduces several new reccomendations, and this guide
> will walk you through implementing these new recommendations by utilizing Gruntwork's Infrastructure as Code Library,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benchmark (as well as all the previous version). The latest version introduces several new recommendations, and this guide
will walk you through implementing these with help from the Gruntwork Infrastructure as Code Library,
```

so that your code becomes fully compliant with the 1.3.0 version of the framework.

[[deployment_walkthrough]]
== Deployment walkthrough

=== Step 1: Update references to the Gruntwork Infrastructure as Code Library

> In order to take advantage of the CIS AWS 1.3.0, you need to update your references to the Gruntwork

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to update to the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark v1.3.0, you need to update your references to the Gruntwork
```

> Infrastructure as Code Library to use a compatible version. We (Gruntwork) have gone through all our modules in the
> library to test and update the code to be compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0. As a customer, you need to update to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure as Code Library to use a compatible version. We (Gruntwork) have reviewed and updated all of the modules in the
library for compatibility with the new version of the Benchmark. As a customer, you need to update to
```

---
title: How to update to the newest version of CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark
categories: Upgrades
image: /assets/img/guides/refresh_icon.png
excerpt: Learn how to update to the 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark
tags: ["aws", "security", "compliance"]
cloud: ["aws"]
redirect_from: /static/guides/upgrades/how-to-update-to-cis-13/
---
:page-type: guide
:page-layout: post

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

// GitHub specific settings. See https://gist.github.com/dcode/0cfbf2699a1fe9b46ff04c41721dda74 for details.
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
toc::[]
endif::[]

== Intro

This guide will walk you through the upgrade process from the 1.2.0 to the 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark.
If your infrastructure is already compliant with the 1.2.0 version of the Benchmark, and you are looking to upgrade to 1.3,

> this guide is for you.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add a sentence like, "If you are starting to work on compliance with this benchmark from scratch, check out our [How to achieve compliance with the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark](https://gruntwork.io/guides/compliance/how-to-achieve-cis-benchmark-compliance/) guide instead!"

=== What you'll learn in this guide

This guide consists of two main sections:

<<core_concepts>>::
  An overview of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark 1.3.0 and why it is important to update your code for compatibility.

<<deployment_walkthrough>>::
  The steps you need to take to update your code to be compliant with CIS AWS 1.3.0. It includes a
  <<compatibility_table,version compatibility table>> you can use as a reference to know which Gruntwork Repo version
  tag is compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0, as well as the manuals step you need to perform to achieve said compliance.

[[core_concepts]]
== Core Concepts

> === Background

Reviewer 2: Could you add a section under Core Concepts that summarizes what's new in the 1.3 version of the benchmark? That is, the new requirements added after 1.2? It could be a bullet point list.

> The 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark was release in September of 2020. You can refer to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark was released in September of 2020. You can refer to the
```

https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/amazon_web_services/[CIS website] where you can download the latest version of the

> Benchmark (as well as all the previous version). The latest version introduces several new recommendations, and this guide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Benchmark (as well as all the previous versions). The latest version introduces several new recommendations, and this guide
```

will walk you through implementing these with help from the Gruntwork's Infrastructure as Code Library,
so that your code becomes fully compliant with the 1.3.0 version of the framework.

[[deployment_walkthrough]]
== Deployment walkthrough

=== Step 1: Update references to the Gruntwork Infrastructure as Code Library

In order to update to the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark v1.3.0, you need to update your references to the Gruntwork

> Infrastructure as Code Library to use a compatible version. We (Gruntwork) have reviewed and updated all the modules in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Infrastructure as Code Library to use compatible versions. We (Gruntwork) have reviewed and updated all the modules in the
```

require more extensive code changes and state migrations. To upgrade without downtime and data loss, **you MUST follow
the migration instructions in the release notes in each repo to know what changes need to be made to update to the new
version.**

[.exceptional]
IMPORTANT: Gruntwork follows
https://gruntwork.io/guides/foundations/how-to-use-gruntwork-infrastructure-as-code-library/#versioning[semantic
versioning]. For any pre-1.0 modules, this means that version updates to the minor version are considered backwards
incompatible releases for any version updates prior to 1.0.0 release. Make sure to read the release notes for the
relevant modules any time you are updating minor versions! Note that you will want to read the release notes for each
minor version that is updated (e.g., if you are going from v0.5.x to v0.9.x, you will want to read the notes for v0.6.0,
v0.7.0, v0.8.0, and v0.9.0 to get the full list of backwards incompatible updates).

The following table provides a summary of all the relevant Gruntwork AWS modules and the respective versions that are
compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0:

> [[compatibility_table]]

Reviewer 2: Reminder to update these versions when we complete the last few items for 1.3 (e.g., the NACLs stuff).

[cols="1,1h,1"]
|===

> |Gruntwork Repo |Minimum version with CIS AWS 1.3.0 support |Corresponding CIS AWS 1.3.0 recommendations

Reviewer 2: It took me a minute to understand what the "Corresponding CIS AWS 1.3.0 recommendations" were. Adding these new items to the Core Concepts section as mentioned above would definitely help.

|module-security
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/module-security/releases/tag/v0.44.5[v0.44.5]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 3.10, 3.11

|terraform-aws-monitoring
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-monitoring/releases/tag/v0.24.0[v0.24.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|package-zookeeper
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/package-zookeeper/releases/tag/v0.8.0[v0.8.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-vpc
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc/releases/tag/v0.12.0[v0.12.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|package-openvpn
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/package-openvpn/releases/tag/v0.13.0[v0.13.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|cis-compliance-aws
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cis-compliance-aws/releases/tag/v0.9.2[v0.9.2]
|4.15, 3.10, 3.11

|===

> === Step 2: Manual steps

Reviewer 2: I think there's quite a bit more to do than this... Many of the requirements require deploying new modules that customers would not have been running at all previously, so bumping version numbers alone is not enough. Going off the list in [this Jira epic](https://gruntwork.atlassian.net/browse/IAC-1604):

1. You need to deploy the IAM access analyzer module.
2. You have to request increased NACL limits before deploying the new NACL stuff.
3. You have to deploy the new `cleanup-expired-certs` module.
4. You have to deploy the new `ebs-encryption-multi-region` module.

There may be others, so make sure all the people that worked on these parts take a careful look!

Author: Yeah, definitely, that's why this PR is still WIP. Everyone who worked on the CIS upgrade is supposed to add their bits to this guide.

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering 🤔  besides the tickets we had as part of this epic in Jira (https://gruntwork.atlassian.net/browse/IAC-1604), do we have another way of gathering data when people have done work towards CIS 1.3 outside of the project itself (e.g. the `ebs-encryption-multi-region`)? I tried searching slack, but couldn't really dig out anything else really

Reviewer 2: Hm, not really...

@bwhaley When you went through the new requirements for v1.3, did you compare it to just v1.2, and create tickets for each new item in v1.3? Or did you compare it to _what we already had at Gruntwork_, and only create tickets for the new items we'd have to create at Gruntwork? If it's the latter, then there are new modules or features we added since we released our 1.2 offering that we need to explicitly tell customers about in this upgrade guide?

Reviewer 3: I was curious to have a play around with this bug, and I have to say it's very annoying and unfortunately my lack of experience with Jekyll and playing around didn't really help!

Anyway, I thought I'd share a few things I looked into, and hopefully it could be a very simple fix when combined with more knowledgeable people in how this works! 

https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/filters/
https://shopify.github.io/liquid/filters/escape/

Basically, as far as I could gather, none of the `;`, `,`, `.`, `:` characters work, so I assume it's some sort of escaping of them that needs to happen!

Reviewer: I looked at the Benchmark v1.3.0, compared each control to 1.2, and opened a ticket for each difference. I do not think there are any modules or steps that we need to cover that are not in this epic. For instance, the EBS encryption module was already underway when I put the epic together, and it was released before this project began, but it's still mentioned here in a ticket. Hope that makes sense - let me know if it doesn't!

Reviewer 3: Ahaa! That makes sense, @bwhaley :) Thanks for confirming - I can see that the EBS is indeed under the Jira epic, but last time I must have missed it or something, so my bad here! 

Ok, so in this case we're all good and confident all that's on Jira is indeed the correct list of changes we need to mention 🙂

https://gruntwork.io/guides/compliance/how-to-achieve-cis-benchmark-compliance/[How to achieve compliance with the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark]
guide instead.

=== What you'll learn in this guide

This guide consists of two main sections:

<<core_concepts>>::
  An overview of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark 1.3.0 and why it is important to update your code for compatibility.

<<deployment_walkthrough>>::
  The steps you need to take to update your code to be compliant with CIS AWS 1.3.0. It includes a
  <<compatibility_table,version compatibility table>> you can use as a reference to know which Gruntwork Repo version
  tag is compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0, as well as the manuals step you need to perform to achieve said compliance.

[[core_concepts]]
== Core Concepts

=== Background

The 1.3.0 version of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark was released in September of 2020. You can refer to the
https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/amazon_web_services/[CIS website] where you can download the latest version of the
Benchmark (as well as all the previous versions). The latest version introduces several new recommendations, and this guide

> will walk you through implementing these with help from the Gruntwork's Infrastructure as Code Library,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
will walk you through implementing these using Gruntwork's Infrastructure as Code Library,
```
Does this read better? I guess our IaC library is technically helping, but I feel most users will directly consume the code modules themselves vs using them as a guide.

> so that your code becomes fully compliant with the 1.3.0 version of the framework.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
so that your infrastructure is fully compliant with version 1.3.0 of the framework.
```
Also, we are technically targeting CIS compliance for "infra" versuses "code" right? I think our solution can be used to buy compliant infrastructure, hence code, but the end customer must look after the physical controls themselves.

==== New recommendations

> These are the new recommendations introduced in the version 1.3.0 of the Benchmark. You can think of these as a "diff"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These are the new recommendations introduced in version 1.3.0 of the Benchmark. You can think of these as a "diff"
```
Grammar suggestion

between versions 1.2.0 and 1.3.0:

- 1.19: Ensure that all the expired SSL/TLS certificates stored in AWS IAM are removed
- 1.20: Ensure that S3 Buckets are configured with ‘Block public access (bucket settings)’
- 1.21: Ensure that IAM Access analyzer is enabled
- 2.1.1: Ensure all S3 buckets employ encryption-at-rest
- 2.1.2: Ensure S3 Bucket Policy allows HTTPS requests
- 2.2.1: Ensure EBS volume encryption is enabled
- 3.10: Ensure that object-level logging for write events is enabled for (CloudTrail) S3 bucket
- 3.11: Ensure that object-level logging for read events is enabled for (CloudTrail) S3 bucket
- 4.15: Ensure a log metric filter and alarm exists for AWS Organizations changes
- 5.1: Ensure no network ACLs allow ingress from 0.0.0.0/0 to remote server administration ports

==== New Gruntwork modules vs existing modules
To achieve compliance with the newly added 10 recommendations listed above, we created three new modules in the
Gruntwork's Infrastructure as Code Library, and updated a bunch of existing modules. Namely: recommendations 1.19, 1.21

> and 5.1 required creation of new modules; the rest of recommendations were achieved by updating existing modules.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and 5.1 required the creation of new modules; the rest of the recommendations were achieved by updating existing modules.
```

- Amazon Simple Storage Service buckets;
- AWS Identity and Access Management roles;
- AWS Key Management Service keys;
- AWS Lambda functions and layers;
- Amazon Simple Queue Service queues.

The IAM Access Analyzer will scan only within the boundaries of the AWS Account or Organization it has been enabled for. The results from this scan will be visible and accessible through the AWS CLI and the AWS Web console. For more information and details on what the AWS IAM Access Analyzer can achieve for your AWS Account and Organization, please refer to the official https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/what-is-access-analyzer.html[AWS docs].

To help you achieve CIS 1.3 compliance, you can find examples of how to use the ready-made module as part of the `landingzone` module in the `aws-service-catalog` repository https://github.com/gruntwork-io/aws-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.15.4[v0.15.4], and specifically the `account-baseline-root` and `account-baseline-security` https://github.com/gruntwork-io/aws-service-catalog/tree/v0.15.4/examples/for-learning-and-testing/landingzone[examples].

==== 2. Deploy ... module (recommendation 1.19)

> #TODO(Rob) IAC-1606

Author: @robmorgan please add deploy instructions here.

==== 3. Deploy ... module (recommendation 5.1)

> #TODO(Marina) IAC-1613

Author: @marinalimeira please add deploy instructions here.

Reviewer 5: Done!

minor version that is updated (e.g., if you are going from v0.5.x to v0.9.x, you will want to read the notes for v0.6.0,
v0.7.0, v0.8.0, and v0.9.0 to get the full list of backwards incompatible updates).

The following table provides a summary of all the relevant Gruntwork AWS modules and the respective versions that are
compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0:

[[compatibility_table]]
[cols="1,1h,1"]
|===
|Gruntwork Repo |Minimum version with CIS AWS 1.3.0 support |Corresponding CIS AWS 1.3.0 recommendations

|module-security
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/module-security/releases/tag/v0.44.6[v0.44.6]
|1.20, 1.21, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 3.10, 3.11

|terraform-aws-monitoring
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-monitoring/releases/tag/v0.24.0[v0.24.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|package-zookeeper
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/package-zookeeper/releases/tag/v0.8.0[v0.8.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-vpc
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc/releases/tag/v0.12.0[v0.12.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|package-openvpn
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/package-openvpn/releases/tag/v0.13.0[v0.13.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|cis-compliance-aws

> |https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cis-compliance-aws/releases/tag/v0.9.2[v0.9.2]

Reviewer 2: I think this should be 0.9.3? https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cis-compliance-aws/releases/tag/v0.9.3

unintentionally exposed and can nullify the impact of disclosure if the encryption remains unbroken. Recommendation 2.2.1 specifies a manual process to encrypt EBS volumes using the AWS Console, however Gruntwork has developed
a module that configures volume encryption by default in all enabled regions. Check out the https://github.com/gruntwork-io/module-security/tree/master/modules/ebs-encryption-multi-region[ebs-encryption-multi-region] to
configure AWS EBS encryption in all enabled regions for an AWS Account.

==== 4. Deploy the vpc-app-network-acl and vpc-mgmt-network-acl modules (recommendation 5.1)

If you are already using the `vpc-app-network-acl` and/or `vpc-mgmt-network-acl` modules, you need to update the
source URL from the https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc[`terraform-aws-vpc` module] (previously known
as `module-vpc`). There is one new required argument, `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs`. You will add the
CIDRs from your office!

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```hcl
```

Author: Fixed this to use the correct adoc code block syntax.

the migration instructions in the release notes in each repo to know what changes need to be made to update to the new
version.**

[.exceptional]
IMPORTANT: Gruntwork follows
https://gruntwork.io/guides/foundations/how-to-use-gruntwork-infrastructure-as-code-library/#versioning[semantic
versioning]. For any pre-1.0 modules, this means that version updates to the minor version are considered backwards
incompatible releases for any version updates prior to 1.0.0 release. Make sure to read the release notes for the
relevant modules any time you are updating minor versions! Note that you will want to read the release notes for each
minor version that is updated (e.g., if you are going from v0.5.x to v0.9.x, you will want to read the notes for v0.6.0,
v0.7.0, v0.8.0, and v0.9.0 to get the full list of backwards incompatible updates).

The following table provides a summary of all the relevant Gruntwork AWS modules and the respective versions that are
compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0:

[[compatibility_table]]
[cols="1,1h,1"]
|===
|Gruntwork Repo |Minimum version with CIS AWS 1.3.0 support |Corresponding CIS AWS 1.3.0 recommendations

> |module-security

Reviewer 2: NIT: we renamed all these repos to the `terraform-aws-xxx` format.

|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-security/releases/tag/v0.44.6[v0.44.6]
|1.20, 1.21, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 3.10, 3.11

|terraform-aws-monitoring
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-monitoring/releases/tag/v0.24.0[v0.24.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-zookeeper
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-zookeeper/releases/tag/v0.8.0[v0.8.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-vpc

> |https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc/releases/tag/v0.12.4[v0.12.4]

Author: I bumped this to 0.12.4 as it looks like the minor update are relevant to the new vpc modules. LMK if this is not right.

Reviewer 3: Updating this to 0.13.0 now? The latest release seems to fix a bug with the NACLs module. @marinalimeira is this correct?

Author: Good catch! I committed your suggestion.

> |https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc/releases/tag/v0.12.4[v0.12.4]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc/releases/tag/v0.13.0[v0.13.0]
```

|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|package-openvpn
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/package-openvpn/releases/tag/v0.13.0[v0.13.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|cis-compliance-aws

> |https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cis-compliance-aws/releases/tag/v0.9.3[v0.9.3]

Reviewer 2: This now needs to be [v0.10.0](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.10.0).

==== 3. Deploy the ebs-encryption-multi-region module (recommendation 2.2.1)

EC2 supports encryption at rest when using the Elastic Block Store (EBS) service. While disabled by default, forcing encryption when creating EBS volumes is supported. Encrypting data at rest reduces the likelihood that it is
unintentionally exposed and can nullify the impact of disclosure if the encryption remains unbroken. Recommendation 2.2.1 specifies a manual process to encrypt EBS volumes using the AWS Console, however Gruntwork has developed
a module that configures volume encryption by default in all enabled regions. Check out the https://github.com/gruntwork-io/module-security/tree/master/modules/ebs-encryption-multi-region[ebs-encryption-multi-region] to

> configure AWS EBS encryption in all enabled regions for an AWS Account.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
configure AWS EBS encryption in all enabled regions of an AWS Account.
```

==== 4. Deploy the vpc-app-network-acl and vpc-mgmt-network-acl modules (recommendation 5.1)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To help us achieve CIS 1.3 compliance, we've also created the `vpc-app-network-acl` module in our [dedicated CIS service catalog](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/tree/master/modules/vpc-app-network-acls). This module is designed in a way that follows CIS 1.3 recommendations - restrict access by default, but only allow explicitly listed SSH and RDP connections and hosts. To be compliant, you'll need to deploy the new module. For more details, please refer to the [dedicated module README](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/blob/master/modules/vpc-app-network-acls/README.md) and [the relevant example](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/tree/master/examples/vpc-network-acls). 
```

If you are already using the `vpc-app-network-acl` and/or `vpc-mgmt-network-acl` modules, you need to update the
source URL from the https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc[`terraform-aws-vpc` module] (previously known
as `module-vpc`). There is one new required argument, `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs`. You will add the
CIDRs from your office!

[source,hcl]
----
module "vpc_app_network_acls" {

>   source = "git::git@github.com:gruntwork-io/cis-compliance-aws.git//modules/vpc-app-network-acls?ref=v0.9.3"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  source = "git::git@github.com:gruntwork-io/cis-compliance-aws.git//modules/vpc-app-network-acls?ref=v0.10.0"
```

  # ... the existing variables weren't affected!

  allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs = {
    berlin_office = "1.2.3.4/32"
    ny_office     = "6.7.8.9/32"

>   }

Reviewer 2: This example needs to be updated to use 3 input variables, one per subnet tier:

- `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_public_subnets`
- `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_private_app_subnets`
- `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_private_persistence_subnets`

- 5.1: Ensure no network ACLs allow ingress from 0.0.0.0/0 to remote server administration ports

==== New Gruntwork modules vs. existing modules
To achieve compliance with the newly added 10 recommendations listed above, we created four new modules in the
Gruntwork's Infrastructure as Code Library, and updated a bunch of existing modules. Namely: recommendations 1.19, 1.21,
2.2.1 and 5.1 required creating new modules; the rest of the recommendations were achieved by updating existing modules.

To ensure compliance with version 1.3.0 of the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark, you'll need to follow all the
instructions in the <<deployment_walkthrough>> section of this guide; precisely, follow Steps 1 and 2 to ensure that
the existing modules get updated to their CIS 1.3.0 compliant versions and follow Step 3 to ensure that you install and
configure the newly created modules.

[[deployment_walkthrough]]
== Deployment walkthrough

Please follow the steps below to upgrade from the version 1.2.0 to 1.3.0 of the Benchmark. To see the actual relevant code
changes, please refer to the Acme CIS examples https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cis-infrastructure-modules-acme/pull/6[here]

> and https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cis-infrastructure-live-acme/pull/8[here].

Reviewer 2: I actually missed these references to Acme initially. Since they are _very_ useful for doing this upgrade, perhaps put them in a call-out, and use bullet points for the two PR links?

Author: By call-out, do you mean a `NOTE` block? If so, I've updated it in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io/pull/386/commits/801a74358dd3232cf824e34e20ac221860b3d364. LMK if you meant something else!

the migration instructions in the release notes in each repo to know what changes need to be made to update to the new
version.**

[.exceptional]
IMPORTANT: Gruntwork follows
https://gruntwork.io/guides/foundations/how-to-use-gruntwork-infrastructure-as-code-library/#versioning[semantic
versioning]. For any pre-1.0 modules, this means that version updates to the minor version are considered backward
incompatible releases for any version updates before the 1.0.0 release. Make sure to read the release notes for the
relevant modules any time you are updating minor versions! Note that you will want to read the release notes for each
minor version that is updated (e.g., if you are going from v0.5.x to v0.9.x, you will want to read the notes for v0.6.0,
v0.7.0, v0.8.0, and v0.9.0 to get the full list of backward incompatible updates).

The following table provides a summary of all the relevant Gruntwork AWS modules and the respective versions that are
compatible with CIS AWS 1.3.0:

[[compatibility_table]]
[cols="1,1h,1"]
|===
|Gruntwork Repo |Minimum version with CIS AWS 1.3.0 support |Corresponding CIS AWS 1.3.0 recommendations

|terraform-aws-security

> |https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-security/releases/tag/v0.44.6[v0.44.6]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-security/releases/tag/v0.44.10[v0.44.10]
```

Author: I don't think these updates are relevant to CIS?

Reviewer 3: You're right!! I failed to see it was the rename. And also your comment below for keeping to the minimal version that is relevant is applicable here too!

|1.20, 1.21, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 3.10, 3.11

|terraform-aws-monitoring

> |https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-monitoring/releases/tag/v0.24.0[v0.24.0]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-monitoring/releases/tag/v0.24.1[v0.24.1]
```

Author: I don't think these updates are relevant to CIS?

Reviewer 3: You're right!! I failed to see it was the rename. And also your comment below for keeping to the minimal version that is relevant is applicable here too!

|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-zookeeper
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-zookeeper/releases/tag/v0.8.0[v0.8.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-vpc
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc/releases/tag/v0.12.4[v0.12.4]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-openvpn
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-openvpn/releases/tag/v0.13.0[v0.13.0]
|1.20, 2.1.1, 2.1.2

|terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.10.0[v0.10.0]
|3.10, 3.11, 4.15, 5.1

|terraform-aws-service-catalog

> |https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.15.4[v0.15.4]

Reviewer 3: not really sure what to do here - we've got this version released already, which is backwards incompatible. But, it also is not directly related to CIS 1.3 - should we link to the latest working release, or the one that's relevant and got the changes for CIS?

Author: I think we should go with the minimum release that has the relevant CIS changes.

Reviewer 5: I don't think we launched this to the customers yet, so I don't think it is an issue.

==== 3. Deploy the ebs-encryption-multi-region module (recommendation 2.2.1)

EC2 supports encryption at rest when using the Elastic Block Store (EBS) service. While disabled by default, forcing encryption when creating EBS volumes is supported. Encrypting data at rest reduces the likelihood that it is
unintentionally exposed and can nullify the impact of disclosure if the encryption remains unbroken. Recommendation 2.2.1 specifies a manual process to encrypt EBS volumes using the AWS Console; however, Gruntwork has developed
a module that configures volume encryption by default in all enabled regions. Check out the https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-security/tree/master/modules/ebs-encryption-multi-region[ebs-encryption-multi-region] to
configure AWS EBS encryption in all allowed regions of an AWS Account.

==== 4. Deploy the vpc-app-network-acl and vpc-mgmt-network-acl modules (recommendation 5.1)

> If you are already using the `vpc-app-network-acl` and/or `vpc-mgmt-network-acl` modules, you need to update the

Reviewer 2: NIT: add a sentence of context here about how we added a new `vpc-app-network-acl` module to the CIS repo, how this module enforces rules around SSH/RDP access, etc, and how customers will need to deploy this new module. _Then_ you can go into the part about what to do if you are using the `vpc-app-network-acl` module from `terraform-aws-vpc` already.

source URL from the https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-vpc[`terraform-aws-vpc` module] (previously known

> as `module-vpc`). There is one new required argument, `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs`. You will add the

Reviewer 2: This is now out of date! There are 3 new arguments:

* `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_public_subnets`
* `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_private_app_subnets`
* `allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_private_persistence_subnets`

Reviewer 2: Oh, and it should explain the difference between the three: e.g., the `public_subnets` one is for servers in the public subnets, and usually set to the CIDRs of your office; the other ones are for private subnets and usually set to the CIDRs of the VPC or specific subnets within that VPC.

CIDRs from your office!

[source,hcl]
----
module "vpc_app_network_acls" {
  source = "git::git@github.com:gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog.git//modules/vpc-app-network-acls?ref=v0.10.0"

  # ... the existing variables weren't affected!

  allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_public_subnets = {
    berlin_office = "1.2.3.4/32"
    ny_office     = "6.7.8.9/32"
  }

  allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_private_app_subnets         = { app_vpc_cidrs = module.app_vpc.vpc_cidr_block }
  allow_administrative_remote_access_cidrs_private_persistence_subnets = { app_vpc_cidrs = module.app_vpc.vpc_cidr_block }
}

> ----

Reviewer 2: If you're switching from `vpc-app-network-acls` in `module-vpc` to this new one, you'll also need to run `state mv` commands! As all the original resources are now nested one module deeper.

Reviewer 5: script here: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cis-infrastructure-modules-acme/pull/7

Note that these new Network ACL Rules exceed the default AWS Quota for NACL Rules. We created a Terraform module
(https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-utilities/tree/master/modules/request-quota-increase[`request-quota-increase`])
where you can request a quota increase. If you use two remote administration ports (the defaults for both modules
are 22 (SSH) and 3389 (Remote Desktop)), you can add up to 10 CIDRs. Check out
https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/tree/v0.10.0/modules/vpc-app-network-acls#calculating-nacl-rules-limits[our

> docs] to see how to calculate the maximum number of CIDRs that you can add.

Reviewer 2: This should be a separate step to make it clearer.

|3.10, 3.11, 4.15, 5.1

|terraform-aws-service-catalog
|https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.15.4[v0.15.4]
|1.21

|===

=== Step 2: Manual steps

Recommendation 4.15 requires an active subscriber for the SNS topic created by this recommendation (see Audit steps 6
and 7 for 4.15). As it's impossible to automate this subscriber's creation, you'll have to do so manually. See
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-create-subscribe-endpoint-to-topic.html[Subscribing to an Amazon SNS topic]
on the AWS website for detailed instructions.

=== Step 3: Deploy new modules

==== 1. Deploy the Cleanup Expired Certs module (recommendation 1.19)

The new CIS AWS v1.3 recommendations require that all expired SSL/TLS certificates stored in AWS IAM are automatically removed. Removing expired SSL/TLS certificates eliminates the risk that an invalid certificate will be deployed
accidentally to a resource such as AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), which can damage the credibility of the application/website behind the ELB. As a best practice, it is recommended to delete expired certificates. To help you

> achieve this recommendation, check out the https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/tree/master/examples/cleanup-expired-certs/terraform[example] of the ready-made `cleanup-expired-certs` module.

Reviewer 2: You can also cross-link to the 1.3.0 guide, as it now has a section on how to use this module (with Terragrunt), and similar sections for each module below!

Author: Added in 8ada2d539f0d5988ff84905101214d750accfb40. (Note that these links don't resolve right now because the 1.3.0 guide hasn't been merged yet!)

Author: Added in 8ada2d539f0d5988ff84905101214d750accfb40. (Note that these links don't resolve right now because the 1.3.0 guide hasn't been merged yet!)
